Blog about pod scheduling readiness (#37436)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-11-29-pod-scheduling-readiness.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.26: Pod Scheduling Readiness to Alpha"
date: 2022-11-29
slug: pod-scheduling-readiness-alpha-1-26
---

**Author:** Wei Huang (Apple), Abdullah Gharaibeh (Google)

> Kubernetes 1.26 introduced a new Pod feature: _scheduling gates. In Kubernetes, scheduling gates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes 1.26 introduced a new Pod feature: _scheduling gates_. In Kubernetes, scheduling gates
```

Author: done.

Pods that remain unschedulable for long periods of time (e.g., one that is blocked on some external event) 
waste scheduling cycles. A scheduling cycle may take ~20ms or more depending on the complexity of
the Pod's scheduling constraints. Therefore, at scale, those wasted cycles significantly impact the
scheduler's performance. See the arrows in the "scheduler" box below.

{{< mermaid >}}
graph LR;
  pod((New Pod))-->queue
  subgraph Scheduler
    queue(scheduler queue)
    sched_cycle[/scheduling cycle/]
    schedulable{schedulable?}
    
    queue==>|Pop out|sched_cycle
    sched_cycle==>schedulable
    schedulable==>|No|queue
    subgraph note [Cycles wasted on keep rescheduling 'unready' Pods]
    end
  end
  
 classDef plain fill:#ddd,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px,color:#000;
 classDef k8s fill:#326ce5,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff;
 classDef Scheduler fill:#fff,stroke:#bbb,stroke-width:2px,color:#326ce5;
 classDef note fill:#edf2ae,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px;
 class queue,sched_cycle,schedulable k8s;
 class pod plain;
 class note note;
 class Scheduler Scheduler;
{{< /mermaid >}}

> Scheduling gates helps address this problem. It allows declaring that newly created Pods are not
> ready for scheduling. When scheduling gates are present on a Pod, the scheduler ignores the Pod
> and therefore saves unnecessary scheduling attempts. Clearing the gates is the responsibility of
> external controllers with knowledge of when the Pod should be considered for scheduling (e.g., 
> a resource provisioner).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scheduling gates helps address this problem. It allows declaring that newly created Pods are not
ready for scheduling. When scheduling gates are present on a Pod, the scheduler ignores the Pod
and therefore saves unnecessary scheduling attempts. Those Pods will also be ignored by Cluster Autoscaler if you have it installed in the cluster. 

Clearing the gates is the responsibility of external controllers with knowledge of when the Pod should be considered for scheduling (e.g., a quota manager).
```
